# Sentiment Analysis
## Algorithmic Machine Learning - Challenge 3
Sentiment analysis is a sub-field of natural language processing (NLP). It is a rapidly growing field, as large databases become increasingly available, and companies have an interest in automatically extracting sentiment from internet users. As a matter of fact, with the increasing amount of content and debate on social media platforms such as Twitter, there is an interest in automatically extracting insights from large amounts of unstructured text data and understanding the overall sentiment of a population towards a particular topic. Capturing sentiment in language is important in these times where decisions and reactions are created and updated in seconds. 
The volume and diversity of tweets call for an automated solution capable of predicting the sentiment behind unseen tweets, given only examples of sentiment-labeled tweets as training data. The dataset employed consists of tweets from Figure Eight's Data for Everyone platform.
Two different solutions have been explored: a Naive Bayes baseline model with different granularities of text cleaning, namely light and heavy cleaning, and a Robustly Optimized BERT Pre-training Approach (roBERTa). The experiments are aimed at the quantization of the impact of the mentioned pre-processing steps on the model's performance, compared with the Transformer tokenizer, being light cleaning involved with essential steps, whilst heavy cleaning encompasses also more invasive techniques. 
